---
title: "Issues"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: exclamation-triangle
---

# Issues.

#### Cycling is not currently safe or easy in North Balwyn

North Balwyn lacks bicycle infrastructure that is safely separated from traffic for people walking, wheeling and riding bikes.

-------------------------


## Safety
From 2011 to 2017, **34 cyclists were injured** in crashes throughout East Kew, Deepdene and Balwyn. Eight of these were classified as ‘serious’.

At present, there is no separated on-road infrastructure in North Balwyn. This is a major barrier to give more people a viable choice to ride a bike.

Existing disjointed off-road paths are separated by **busy 60km/h roads** and have few crossing points. This makes it dangerous for people to get around, especially children going to school, young families and older people.

-------------------------


## Connectivity
The existing paths through Macleay Park, Hislop Park and Gordon Barnard Reserve are disjointed and do not connect to other paths.

The current route ends at Severn Street on the western end of Myrtle Park with **no signage or infrastructure** to direct people onto the Glass Creek Trail in Stradbroke Park near Burke Road.

To the east, the paths are narrow, poorly-surfaced do not connect to one another.

-------------------------


## Infrastructure

Wayfinding along the current route does not currently exist. This makes it difficult to get around.

While some infrastructure is already in place, small connections between the isolated segments is required.

Both on and off-road paths require infrastructure to encourage cycling.